URL: https://uok.edu.pk/alumni/index.php

University of Karachi Alumni
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
University of Karachi Alumni
Introduction
University of Karachi Alumni
Introduction
Introduction
Aims & Objectives
Endowment Fund
Contact
The first official Alumni body of University of Karachi aims to help you stay in touch with your University, college and other UoK alumni, no matter wherever you are in the world.
The University of Karachi Alumni (UKA) - with graduates from all academic programmes at UoK and its affiliated colleges including Bachelors, Masters, MS/M.Phil and PhD form an integral part of the University. This ever-growing body represents a rich resource base for the University with its huge reservoir of diverse talents and expertise spanning over areas like Social and Biological Sciences, Management and Administrative Sciences, Pharmacy, Islamic Studies, Law, Medicine, Engineering and Education. The bond that our students form with their alma mater will strengthen even further once they become alumni.
Through this alumni body, the University will ensure that good communication link is established amongst the alumni as well as between the alumni and the University. To achieve this it has established an office in the Public Relations Office, where administrative facilities are provided to its alumni for the completion of their membership. Not only this, the office will be responsible to build a cohesive network of UoK Alumni. It will ensure unhindered communication throughout the year that includes timely announcement of University events as well. The office aims to organize different alumni based activities that will help connecting the alumni around the globe.
These measures will keep our alumni informed about the whereabouts and achievements of fellow alumni, as well as important developments at the University. To provide a more efficient communication link, a website will soon be developed to provide up to date information regarding alumni events. Also, the latest developments at the University will be announced through this website. An electronic version of the University Magazine will also be available on the website.
List of Alumni members :: PDF
University starts the registration of its Alumni
University of Karachi has launched its first official Alumni body the  University of Karachi Alumni.  The process of alumni registration has started. Forms are available here . For further queries email can be sent at alumni@uok.edu.pk.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk