URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/computerscience/index.php

Department of Computer Science - UBIT
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Department of Computer Science
Main page
Department of Computer Science - UBIT
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
B.S.
M.S. / Ph.D.
U.B.I.T.
M.C.S
B.A./B.Sc. Course outline
Research
HCMS-ICT
Seminars & Events
Contact
Chairman: Dr. M. Sadiq Ali Khan (Assoc. Prof.)
Vision
To become an internationally recognized Computer Science Department as Centre of Excellence in Higher Education where students receive high quality education.
Introduction: The University of Karachi holds a unique position in the country's educational system. As a respected research and reaching institution, it is committed to intellectual leadership, and to excellence in both developing knowledge and conveying that knowledge to its students. The University of Karachi meets the commitments to preserve knowledge through its instructional and research programs for higher level education.
The Department of Computer Science, University of Karachi, was established by a resolution of Academic Council in its meeting, held on November 27. 1984, and it began functioning in the academic year 1985-86 by offering a Degree Program in Master of Computer Science (MCS) and become one of first institutions in Karachi imparting education in Computer Science and Technology. The Department also offers evening program leading to Post Graduate Diploma (PGD) in Computer & Information Sciences. In the year 1995; Department started MCS evening program, on self-finance basis, to cater the growing demand of professionally skilled manpower in the field of Computer Science.
To further strengthen the discipline of Computer Science by producing high quality pro with sound fundamental knowledge. the department has started in the year 1996 and 2001 BS (Computer Science) in the morning and evening, a four year degree program leading to MS (Computer Science), a two year program after completing the BS. MS programs leads to PhD (Computer Science) program. The University of Karachi has excellent supporting faculty in the subjects of Mathematics, Statistics, Physics and other allied subjects for teaching these courses at BS (Computer Science) level. The first batch of BS (Computer Science) of the morning program passed in 1999.
The Department of Computer Science offers a wide range of courses at various levels. The purpose of these courses is to provide opportunities for advanced studies and research in the field of Computer Science and information Technology and related fields, and also to produce highly skilled computer personnel to cater the need of Computer professionals in the country and abroad. The Department maintains high standard of education through continuous assessment and with periodic tests, quizzes, seminars and field projects. The Department maintains close link with professional organizations at national and international levels, to enhance professional and academic standard of the faculty and as well as of the students.
Curriculum Policy
The contents of courses offered are revised after every two years and books are recommended to cope with the rapid developments which are taking place in Computer Science and Information Technology. All the curricula have been designed in the light of recommendations of Task Force (on the Curriculum for Computer Science Programs for general Universities of Sindh). Thus all the curricula of Department of Computer Science are developed for CS/IT on the following policy:
"Curriculum should be made flexible so as to be responsive to the changing g structure of the market. The curricula shall encourage thinking, creativity and project construction ability. The curricula of CS/IT shall be made comparable with international standards and matching the needs of the next century by developing libraries, laboratories, and above all teaching staff".
Career Opportunities
Excellent career opportunities exist for the graduates of Department of Computer Science. More than 80% of graduates are immediately hired by top ranking software houses and other institutions.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk