URL: https://uok.edu.pk/research_institutes/cdfst/index.php

Center for Digital Forensic Science and Technology
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Institutes
Center for Digital Forensic Science and Technology
Main page
Center for Digital Forensic Science and Technology .
Main page
Introduction
Chancellor's Speech
Vice Chancellor's Speech
Seminar/Workshops
Mission
Objective
Programs
Courses
Research
Gallery
Contact
Director: Dr. Nadeem Mahmood.
For the first time in Pakistan University of Karachi is offering the Digital Forensic education at the undergraduate / graduate / post graduate/ MS & Ph.D. level. Centre for Digital Forensic Science & Technology will keep functioning for the betterment law enforcement agencies, specially judiciary for its quick justice for public interest and economic viability for public at large.
CDFST will play an integral role in the criminal justice system. This Centre will support law enforcement agencies (Police, Rangers, NAB, FIA, CPLC and etc.) in meeting the expectations of Government and community. The Centre will strive connecting the crime scene and judicial system through the development and delivery of impartial expert scientific opinion evidence. This Centre will educate resolving complex criminal cases and will be a bridge in providing easy access to criminal justice system with its advanced curriculum. This Advanced Digital Evidence Educational System will be a value added to the conventional evidence system of Pakistan. This Centre will impart digital forensic education to the new generation of students who have the aptitude and desirous of joining this exciting and newly emerging subject in Pakistan.
This Centre is committed to provide qualitative digital forensic education with state of the art facilities and will play its crucial role in economic strengthening of Pakistan. This Centre will create new job opportunities and provide a clear career path towards specialization to the students undertaking such programs. Inter-alia qualified manpower will be available to the public and private sector in various fields as applications of digital forensic science are not limited to criminal law, and can include civil law, product liability, medical integrity, highway safety, environmental protection, consumer protection and national security.
Presently, many universities are providing courses/programs ranging from BSc. (Hons), Masters, M.Phil and Ph.D in various subjects like Bio-chemistry, Bio-informatics, Physics and chemistry etc related to forensic science in one context or another. Availability of digital forensic studies program at a suitable level can provide a clear platform for dedicated digital forensic science studies for a career start. Similarly, the police forces and law enforcement agencies will have a growing demand in future for inducting digital forensic analysts/experts to make their investigations more effective, objective and scientific in nature rather than to rely on the existing obsolete methodology and technology.
This Centre will range all laws e.g. Prevention of Electronic Crime Evidence Ordinance 2007, Investigation for Fair Trial Act, 2012, Law in process on Cyber Crime and will adopt any future legislation as well.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk