URL: https://uok.edu.pk/research_institutes/cews/index.php

Centre of Excellence for Women's Studies
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Institutes
Centre of Excellence for Women's Studies
Main page
Centre of Excellence for Women's Studies
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Aims
Research
Facilities
Events
Contact
Graduate Directory PDF
Director: Prof. Dr. Asma Manzoor.
The centre was established as a project in 1989 by the Ministry of Women Development, Government of Pakistan. For the last 21 years CEWS has had a special appeal for students from all over the country. The first M.A in Women’s Studies in Pakistan began in 1996 at the University of Karachi. In 2002 Centre initiated M.Phil / Ph.D program. From 2004 the discipline of Women’s Studies was introduced as a subsidiary course at First Year (Hons.) level. From January 2007 BS (Hons.) 4 years program was launched and from January 2010 M.A (Evening) program has also started. Innovative courses and seminars offered at the Centre, and research conducted here, aims at generating a functional knowledge base with the purpose of identifying hitherto under-used and neglected human resources for national growth.
Career Opportunities
Majority of CEWS graduates are now placed at various administrative positions in NGOs, International Welfare Organizations, Research Organizations, Planning and Development, Government, Semi-Government, Private Organizations and Teaching both at the local and national level. CEWS give priority to its students and employ as cooperative teachers and research associates. Along with this, Graduates of the Centre are working in different International, National and other organizations such as Ministry of Women and Development (MoWD) Islamabad, Women and Development Department (WDD) Sindh, Sindh University (Jamshoro), Karrakurum University, Social Policy Development Centre (SPDC), Aga Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP), World Wild Life Fund (WWF). They are also working in NGOs like Aurat Foundation, Shirkat Gah, War Against Rape (WAR), Health Oriented Preventive Education (HOPE), Madadgar, Pakistan Institution of Labour Education and Research (PILER), Labour Education Foundation (LEF), Society for the Protection of the Rights of the Child (SPARC), Society for the Advancement of Community Health, Education and Training (SACHET), Inter Press Communication (IPC), Rozan, etc.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk