URL: https://uok.edu.pk/research_institutes/isst/index.php

Institute of Space and Planetary Astrophysics
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Institutes
Institute of Space Science and Technology
Main page
Institute of Space Science and Technology
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Mission
Curriculum
Research
Facilities
Events
Gallery
Contact
Director: Dr. Syed Tanweer Iqbal. (Assoc. Prof.)
The University of Karachi is the pioneer university in Pakistan that realized the importance of Space Science and started a subject of Astronomy in 1952 at the Department of Mathematics. The Institute of Space Science and Technology (ISST) came into existence as an autonomous Research Institute of the University of Karachi in 1994. After one year, the institute had introduced M.Phil. / Ph.D. research program first time in Pakistan. ISST has already produced quality research work in areas such as Computational Astronomy, Cosmology, Space Weathers, Star Formation, Galactic Physics, Climate Change, Food Risk Assessment etc.
The institute offers admission to BS in Space Science and Technology. During 4-year study, students learn the following courses: Astronomy, Cosmology, Remote Sensing & GIS, Analog & Digital Electronics, Satellite Communication and Aerospace Science, Computer Programming, Machine Learning, etc. The curriculum of this program is designed in compliance with international standards, emerging technologies, and to meet the indigenous requirements of Space Science program of Pakistan. In addition, the proposed curriculum ensures the quality, trends and the development of dynamic professional human resources.
The international aviation industry is growing rapidly; there is an increasing demand for qualified skilled professionals who can manage and maintain aircraft as well as aviation operations. Therefore, the Institute of Space Science & Technology (ISST), University of Karachi has designed the curriculum of new degree program: BS in Aviation Technology & Management. This undergraduate program is designed for students who intend to pursue a career in aviation technology, unmanned aerial systems, and airport management. Students will learn the discipline’s latest technology and hands-on and research-based courses. During 4-year study, students will focus on deeper topics in the emphasis area and prepare for careers with courses in aerospace science, aviation technology, telecommunication, global navigation satellite system (GNSS), airline management and more. Hence, the curriculum of this program is designed to meet the indigenous requirements of Space Science program of Pakistan. The curriculum of this program blends aviation technology (aerospace science, satellite communication, unmanned aerial systems) courses with management studies ensuring graduates are well-prepared to serve aviation and airline industry. Moreover, this undergraduate program aims to produce qualified professionals for SUPARCO, National Aerospace Science and Technology Park (NASTP), Airlines (including PIA, Serene Air, etc.), Pakistan Civil Aviation Authority, Aviation Industry and Drone Industry.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk