URL: https://uok.edu.pk/research_institutes/nnrc/index.php

National Nematological Research Centre
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Institutes
National Nematological Research Centre
Main page
National Nematological Research Centre
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Courses
Research
Publications
Facilities
Events
Internship
Contact
Director: Dr. Saboohi Raza
National Nematological Research Centre (NNRC) is a leading research and educational institute dedicated to the generation, acquisition of knowledge about Nematology in Pakistan. NNRC was established in 1974 and now has come to symbolize as an efficient, dynamic and forward looking research centre in Pakistan. Nematology is a highly specialized field of biological sciences including agriculture and provides services of specialists dealing with nematodes. NNRC is the only research as well as academic centre, which is solely associated with the study and research of Nematology in the country. The main objective of NNRC is to promote the subject of Nematology so as to generate highly trained manpower through M. Phil / Ph. D. degree program.
NNRC has now get ISO Certification 9001-2015 for the compliance of its Diagnostic services and Educational program.
Ph.D programme in Nematology is aimed at imparting a full range of knowledge, awareness and expertise in Nematology to meet the challenges of the new millennium. International and national scientific conferences, seminars and training workshops also organized as a part of the routine work/study. NNRC has regularly published bi-annual scientific journal,  Pakistan Journal of Nematology  (PJN) since 1983 and PSN Newsletter since 2002, covering the significant research in fundamental and applied Nematology within and outside the country, besides several books, booklets, manual, proceedings and many national and international patents. The centre also has collaborations in research with many international and national agricultural research institutions and universities including other departments of the University of Karachi. The website of PJN:  www.pjn.com.pk
Vision : The main vision of the NNRC is to grow more food and healthy agricultural crops that are free from the attack of nematode pests.
Mission : Eradication of nematodes from our agricultural crops is the mission of the centre, besides to promote the subject of Nematology and produce highly trained manpower through M. Phil and Ph. D degree programs.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk