URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/agriculture/index.php

Department of Agriculture and Agribusiness Management
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Agriculture and Agribusiness Management
Main page
Department of Agriculture and Agribusiness Management
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Courses
Research
Facilities
Contact
Chairperson: Prof. Dr. Saboohi Raza
The department of Agriculture launched its BS-Program in Agriculture in 2004 and acquired the status of the department in 2006. It was renamed as the Department of Agriculture and Agribusiness Management in 2008. The Department offers specializations in “Agribusiness management”, “Plant protection” and “ Plant pathology ”.
Agribusiness is an important and ever expanding industry in Pakistan. It combines the study of agricultural sciences with the management skills providing an understanding of economic and business principles and their application to Agribusiness. The program aims to develop a range of personal and transferrable skills along with the critical appreciation of the techniques to assist effective execution of agribusiness management function.
It cannot be denied that the implementation of proper pest and disease management strategies can be helpful in increasing the crop yield and ultimately boost the economy of the country. The courses offered for specialization in plant pathology or plant protection enable the students to acquire an in-depth knowledge of pest and diseases affecting crops, vegetables, fruits and ornamental plants in the country and make them aware of the management strategies to overcome the problem in an eco-friendly manner.
Teaching and Assessment
During the first two years, courses related to different fields of agriculture are taught to develop good background knowledge of the subject. From the third year, students can choose either Agribusiness Management, Plant Protection or Plant Pathology as their field of specialization. Assessment is done as per semester rules that include midterm, Make-up and terminal examinations, and a lab examination or assignment. In the final semester, internship in either a research or agribusiness related organization is mandatory.
Career Opportunities
Specialization in Agribusiness management is helpful in getting jobs in farm business related to national and multinational organizations as managers, consultants, supply chain coordinators and accountants. It also provides an opportunity to enter self-employment immediately after graduating, largely within the farming or food sectors.
Students specializing in plant protection or plant pathology have job opportunities in various research organizations like Department of plant protection, PARC, PCSIR, NIAB, NIA, ARI etc. They can also get jobs in plant and pesticide related national and multinational organizations or can initiate their own business to provide pest and disease management services to farmers.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk