URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/bengali/index.php

Department of Bengali
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Bengali
Main page
Department of Bengali
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Courses
Contact
Chairman: Prof. Dr. Muhammad Abu Tayyab Khan
Established in 1953, the department of Bengali at the University of Karachi offers a regular program of studies at the Bachelors and at the Masters levels. The program enables students to develop a meaningful understanding and appreciation of Bengali Literature. Moreover, it gives an insight into the history of Bengali Literature starting from the medieval age right up toll the modern age. In addition to this, it acquaints students with the different genres of literature namely poetry, drama and fiction/prose.
A pool of highly competent faculty members has been associated with the Bengali department. Professor Syed Ali Ahsan, Professor Muhammad Farooq, Professor Syed Ali Ashraf and Mr. A.B.M. Mohiuddin Chaudhry have all contributed immensely to the development of the department
Teaching and Assessment
Teaching at the Bengali department is carried out mainly through lecture. Visiting speakers from other institutes are also invited from time to time. Students are required to give presentations on various topics as well as to submit assignments. The department hosts seminars at national and international level from time to time, in which distinguished speakers from Bangladesh read out their papers and speak on different aspects of Bengali literature The seminar organized by the department was on the prominent Bengali scholar QaziNazrul Islam’s contribution to Human Rights and Bengali Language,  recently the department organized seminar on the "Qazi Nazrul - Islam and Allama Iqbal" contribution to Muslim Dignity in South Asia.
Career Opportunities
Students who graduate from this department are competent enough to enter the teaching profession for the subject of Bengali at primary as well as higher education level. Furthermore, opportunities of working in Bangladeshi banking sector,including ArifHabibRupali Bank, and in various government departments are available to them. They may also opt for research or work as translators and interpreters.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk