URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/biochemistry/index.php

Department of Biochemistry
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Biochemistry
Main page
Department of Biochemistry
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Facilities and Research
M.Phil. / Ph.D.
Contact
Chairperson: Prof. Dr. Shamim A. Qureshi
Biochemistry at University of Karachi started as part of the Department of Chemistry in 1962 under the Chairmanship of Dr. Rafiq Ahmed. Dr. MA Wali, Dr. Zain-ul-Abedin and Dr. Sabir Ali have served as Department Chairs. During the tenure of the first three Chairs research within the Department was closely associated with the interests of the Chairs and was mentor to many scientists as they established their research careers here. Through its history since then the department has flourished under the direction of eleven chairpersons and currently have 27 faculty members and a MPhil/PhD program for which the degrees have been granted in the department since 1975.
Research work at molecular level led to an era of explosive productivity within the department and the training of a whole generation of young scientists, many of whom went on to distinguished careers in Biochemistry. With the creation of an independent department, the faculty expanded slowly to include three professors by 1970; 12 professors by 2007 and now 27 faculty members in 2012. Student enrollment and PhDs awarded also increased as the department expanded with increase in the annual scientific productivity.  In recent years an average doctoral student had just over 3 co-authored papers from dissertation research, and is first author on two papers.
The department sets out to meet a key goal of modern biology – to arrive at a full understanding of the structure and dynamic chemistry of the underlying molecular constituents of cells, the essential feature is that biochemistry uses molecular methods to explain biological processes. The focus of research has shifted towards molecular biochemistry, genomics and proteomics, biotechnology, cellular biophysics and structural biology, clinical biochemistry, biochemical neuropharmacology, bioinformatics, nutritional biochemistry  with several independent groups engaged in studies in molecular structure determination, molecular mechanisms of membrane trafficking, protein folding, and signal transduction.
The Department of Biochemistry now covers such a wide range that it is difficult to draw a demarcation around biochemistry it provides a multidisciplinary and collaborative setting that brings together cell biologists, neurochemists , clinical biochemists, biophysicists,  nutritionists, enzymologist,  geneticists, systems/computational biologists and structural biologists which provides the foundations of pathology, pharmacology, physiology, genetics. The research programs of most of the faculty within the Department revolved around these central themes. Major projects within the Department involved the understanding of the mechanism and regulation of enzymes, clinical chemistry, biotechnology ,behavioral neuropharmacology, protein-protein interactions, characterization of proteins in disease conditions using 2-DE and Mass Spectrometry, western blotting, HPLC and the structure of proteins using biophysical methods such as ultracentrifugation and electron microscopy.
Subsidiary student teaching remains an important role of department faculty. The Biochemistry faculty members are principally involved in the first Basic Science course, Molecules, Genes, and Cells to approximately 1200 students per year. Graduate students are the leaders of tomorrow and play a critical role in keeping the department at the forefront of international research. Many of whom went on to distinguished careers in Biochemistry like faculty at the world renowned Universities like Harvard University and  NIH USA .
Over the years, faculty in the Department of Biochemistry has received considerable recognition, including receipt of major University awards, election to the National Academy of Sciences, International Advisory committee members and International Scientific Society Council members. We are proud of our history and current status, and we strive towards continued excellence in research, training, and service in the field of biochemistry.
Our Mission
Excel in Undergraduate, Graduate and Post graduate education
Serve the University through leadership in forums committed to admissions and curriculum
Conduct world class research in Biochemistry
Teaching Focus
Under graduate courses
Graduate courses
Post graduate courses for MPhil/PhD students
Our faculty members of Biochemistry department are leaders in the academic forums and participate actively in faculty committees.
Vision
Biochemistry form the core of life sciences, the department intend to play in the dissemination and application of knowledge through teaching and research. It is the aim of the department to promote the development of conducive scholarly environment to enhance intellectual capabilities, to offer graduate and undergraduate programs that are of international standards and to foster research and scholarly activities in biochemistry and interdisciplinary fields.
Career Opportunities
Graduates of Biochemistry usually get employment in well-known Pharmaceutical and food industries of Pakistan. Countless opportunities are available in clinical Laboratories, research institutes and teaching Institutions.
Golden Jubilee Celebrations
Visit website here
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk