URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/biotechnology/index.php

Department of Biotechnology
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Biotechnology
Main page
Department of Biotechnology
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Mission & Objectives
Courses
Scope
Contact
Chairperson: Dr. Raheela Rahmat Zohra (Assoc. Prof.)
The Department was established in 1996 with an objective of imparting quality education in the multidisciplinary field of Biotechnology at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Biotechnology is defined as the application of biological systems to basic and technical and industrial processes. These processes are based on the use of some form of biological catalyst in the conversion of a substrate to a desired product. These biological catalysts are simple as enzymes or highly complex microorganisms or eukaryotic cells.
Biotechnology can be viewed as a group of useful, enabling technologies with wide and diverse applications. It has large, highly profitable, modern industrial outlets of great value to society e.g., DNA recombinant technology, most revolutionary branch of the modern science and have a profound impact on medicine, contributing to the diagnostics and cure of hereditary defects and serious disease and the development of new biopharmaceutical drugs and vaccines for human and animal use. It also deals with the modification of microorganisms, plants and farm animals for improved and tailored food production and to increased opportunities for environmental remediation and protection.
New technologies dealing with plant and animal breeding are much faster and have lower costs. Genetically modified crops are growing exponentially. The field is further exemplified with the industrial production of enzymes like proteases, amylases, celluloses and lipases, industrial manufacturing plants for milk and milk products,alcohols, organic acids, antibiotics, vitamins, growth promoting factors and monoclonal antibodies.
Career Opportunities
Graduates of Biotechnology usually get employment in well-known Pharmaceutical and food industries of Pakistan. Countless opportunities are available in clinical Laboratories, research institutes and teaching Institutions.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk