URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/businessadministration/index.php

Karachi University Business School
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Business Administration
Main page
Karachi University Business School
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Objectives
Programs
Courses
Facilities
Centers & Offices
Newsletter
Contact
Chairman: Dr. Sheikh Muhammad Fakhre Alam Siddiqui (In charge)
The Karachi University Business School (KUBS) was established in the year 1999-2000 because Institute of Business Administration (IBA a constituent of University of Karachi) was declared autonomous degree awarding institution.
KUBS within short period of eight years has become well established institution with good reputation and high image in the business world. MBA (Banking and Finance) two years professional program is also run jointly with Institute of Bankers Pakistan (IBP). The admissions of which are announced separately.
The mission of KUBS is prepare right leaders for the right organization. KUBS is committed to impart our students general management education focused on building a deep understanding of business, teaching with skill and passion. We intend to imbibe a sprit of entrepreneurship and creativity among our students and prepare them for a global community that is increasingly reliant on technology.
Students’ Attendance & Discipline
Almost full attendance is desirable in the interest of students themselves. However, leaving an allowance of exigencies like sickness, a minimum of 85% is required, according to the decision of Academic Council. A students having more than six absences in a course will not be allowed to take semester examination and he/she will get an “F” grade (failure) in the course concerned.
Teaching & Research
In addition to regular faculty members, eminent faculty is also drawn from outside business organizations to share with students their practical experience especially in those courses which are practical oriented.
Case studies, class presentations, questions-answers session, seminars etc. are regularly conducted.
Periodical assessment of student performance through terminal exams, and final exam is done. Term papers and research reports are also produced in almost all courses by the students.
Career Opportunities
Tremendous opportunities exist in the field of Banking, Finance, and Marketing in national and multinational organizations. Our graduates are in great demand and highly paid jobs are offered to them.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk