URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/chemicalengineering/index.php

Department of Chemical Engineering
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Chemical Engineering
Main page
Department of Chemical Engineering (Accredited by PEC)
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Courses
Facilities
OBE System
Industrial Linkage
Contact
Research Publications
International Conference
Alumni
Industry – Academic Collaboration
Chairman: Dr. Muhammad Yasir (Assoc. Prof.)
Chemical Engineering arose from the need to apply physical, chemical, and engineering principles to the processing of such varied products such as fuels, drugs, foods, plastics, metals ,microelectronics, and basic chemicals. Undergraduate preparation for this field is therefore especially broad and balanced, drawing on chemistry, mathematics, physics etc. The graduates of a chemical engineering program are well prepared not only for industrial practice but also for graduate work in such diverse fields as biochemical, biomedical,or nuclear engineering; chemistry; environmental or energy studies; materials science; semiconductors, medicine; business administration; and law. Indeed, we seek to educate the future leaders of our technological society. Many chemical Engineers serve in the traditional chemical process industries of petroleum, natural gas, chemicals, paper, and plastics. Some develop new products or through research, while others carry out the pilot studies and design work to bring innovations from the laboratory into manufacturing operations. Many are engaged in the operation and management of process plants. Others are in marketing, developing new applications for, or solving problems arising from, the use of these products. Often a chemical engineer moves from one of these functions to the next as an idea develops-into a full-scale production facility. Chemical engineers have long aided in energy and materials production from oil, gas, coal, and high-energy chemicals. They are involved in the research, development, and production of energy from alternative energy resources. A chemical engineer's career path is varied and rewarding, allowing individual talents to grow and be fully utilized.
Teaching and Assessment
The course consists of class room lectures plus laboratory practical. The courses are divided into 3 credit hours (without practical) and 4 credit hours (with practical). Four credit hours courses consist of 100 marks for theory and 50 marks for practical.
Career Opportunities
There exists a wide scope of employment opportunities for Chemical Engineers from International companies to small locally based industries, from Petro-chemicals to wet processing of Textiles. Many Chemical Engineers work as consultant, managing their own companies even.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk