URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/commerce/index.php

Department of Commerce
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Commerce
Main page
Department of Commerce
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Research
Objectives
Facilities
Research
B.S. Commerce
M.Com.
M.Com. (Insurance)
Contact
Chairperson: Prof. Dr. Zaeema Asrar Mohiuddin
The Department of Commerce University of Karachi has been instrumental in providing candidates with thorough knowledge and understanding of the principles of commerce and business. The BS (four years) and M.Com programs are structured on team based learning, class presentations, case studies, field research reports and other reference materials, to combine academic theory with practical problems, seminars and workshops on current economic and business issues are also organized in the Department.
The Department of Commerce has been imparting quality and research oriented business education since 1974. No one can deny that an educational institution is known because of the academic activities of its teachers and other members.
To keep pace with the dynamic world of business and business education, the department of commerce is accelerating in both ways, one, the department is expanding in its educational program by introducing B.S. four year program. The department had also started B.Com (Hons) in the year 2004 for the first time in its history, which is now replaced by B.S. four year program. Another development is bringing about a change in its curriculum, which is in compliance with the international education system. Now the department of commerce has all those courses which are well demanded in the business world, the students are capable of acquiring good jobs both at national and international level, they are well equipped with all those disciplines which are the need of the day. Degree Conferred personalities of the department in the discipline of Finance, Accounts, Management, Marketing and Banking are well received by corporate sector today and enjoy the privilege of being highest academic degree holder in the field of Commerce
The peculiarity of Department education policy is the promotion of “OUT OF THE BOX” thinking in students that enable them to be the Business leaders of tomorrow, this approach also leads students towards their targeted job market and make their way clear towards the destination of professionalism.
Academic year is divided into two semesters based on classroom lectures, research work, presentations and report writing etc. GPA evaluation system is there to grade student in such a way that they are accepted internationally. Minimum CGPA requirement to obtain the degree is 2.45.
Teaching and assessment
Students are provided with up-to-date knowledge through classroom lectures, seminars, conferences, case studies, class presentations and research reports.
The program is assessed by a mixture of continuous assessment and examination.
Career Opportunities
Students have an outstanding record of going on to jobs in business and management or working for them or studying further, we encourage work experience or job placements and internships. Our placement companies include PSO, Shell, Unilever, P&G, Indus Motor, Nissan Motor, SBP, other Banks and DFI’s, PIA, SUPARCO, etc..
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk