URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/foodscience/index.php

Department of Food Science & Technology
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Food Science & Technology
Main page
Department of Food Science & Technology
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Courses
Facilities
Objectives
Research
MOU's
Contact
Chairperson: Dr. Muhammad Abdul Haq (Assoc. Prof.)
The department of Food Science & Technology was establish in 1994 to cater the needs of the fast growing food industries in the country and also to meet the ever growing demand for food scientists and technologists in government, research and educational establishments. Its mission is to provide high-quality education and training to students and prepare them for careers in the food industry, academia, or government, to conduct basic and applied research for the ultimate benefit of the food industry and consumers and to provide assistance and services to the food industry. Over the years, the department has developed strong links with the industry. Recently the department has established an Industrial Advisory Board comprising members from reputed Food industries to help us shape our curriculum from an industrial perspective to keep it relevant and to ensure that our curriculum reflect current developments and industry skills requirements. The department has always been actively engaged   in providing advisory services and consultancy to food industries and also   organizing seminars, conferences and training courses in collaboration with industries.   In addition to food industries, the department also works in collaboration with government organizations such as PSQCA, PCSIR, PARC, SFA and different NGOs. Realizing the importance of human nutrition in daily life and emergencies like earthquake, drought, famine and man-made disasters, department offered another Four year BS Program entitled Human Nutrition & Dietetics from 2023. The Curriculum for the program has been developed in view of local as well as global health needs.
Accreditation status
The BS program in Food Science & Technology has been accredited by National Agriculture Education Accreditation Council (NAEAC) in 2021.
Members Board of Studies
Dr. Shahina Naz
Chairperson
Dr. Feroz Alam
Assistant Professor
Dr. Mukhtar A. Tarar
Principal Scientific Officer, PCSIR –Karachi
Dr. Jawaad A. Ansari
Assistant Professor, Department of Food Engineering, NEDUET
Dr. Habeeba Shah
Assistant Professor, School of Public Health, Dow University
Dr. Raheel Ahmed
Quality Assurance Manager, EBM, Karachi
Members Industrial Advisory Board
Board Members from the Department
Dr. Shahina Naz
Chairperson
Dr. Feroz Alam
Assistant Professor
Dr. Tahira Mohsin Ali
Assistant Professor
Dr. Abdul Haq
Assistant Professor
Dr. Zubala Lutfi
Assistant Professor
Board Members from the Industries
Dr. Fayyaz Ashraf
Director Quality, Research & Development, National Foods
Dr. Muhammad Nasir
General Manager Scientific and Regulatory Affairs, Engro Pakistan Ltd
Mr. Sheikh M. Tehseen
CEO, United King
Mr. Owais Nadeem
Manager Regulatory Affairs, Unilever Pakistan Limited
Career Opportunities
Food Science & Technology
The graduates of Food Science can work as Food Technologists, Food Engineers, Food Analysts, Food Production Manager, Food Quality Control/ Assurance Manager, Food Safety Inspectors, Food Research and Development Manager, Science & Regulatory Affairs Manager.
Human Nutrition & Dietetics
The graduate of Human Nutrition and Dietetics can work as Nutrionist, Dietitian, Public Health Nutritionist, Sports Nutritionist, Pediatric Nutritionist and Nutrition therapist.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk