URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/genetics/index.php

Department of Genetics
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Genetics
Main page
His Highness Dr. Syedna Burhanuddin Department of Genetics
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Facilities
Research
Contact
Genetics Website
Chairperson: Prof. Dr. Erum Shoaib
The science of Genetics started out as a study of inheritance of traits from parents to offspring in the early 20th century. Recently the life-sciences in general have emerged as multidisciplinary subjects and genetics has now been recognized as the single most fundamental science among all of the life-sciences. Due to the exponential pace of advancement that genetics has enjoyed in the past few decades, especially after the Human Genome Project, it is now finding more and more applications in the health sciences. During the course of its development genetics has a firm foothold in improving the quality of all kinds of biological produce. Moreover, its new role as a genetic-tool has allowed many allied sciences to reach new heights especially in the industrial applications of living things collectively called biotechnologies and also cloning, and gene therapy.
The Department of Genetics was established in 1969 at the University of Karachi, offers the degrees of M.Sc., M.S. and Ph.D. in Genetics. A bachelor’s program is expected to start soon. All of these programs are conducted by a staff consisting of highly qualified faculty that includes nine PhDs.
The department takes great pride in maintaining an intellectual and cognitive atmosphere in order to promote learning and to provide to its students an experience they will remember fondly for the rest of their lives.
Teaching and Assessment
Graduate students learn in a conducive and comfortable environment with modern teaching aids in classrooms and labs as well as computer labs. Assessments are done as university policies.
Career Opportunities
Since late, Genetics is being applied in many diverse fields of science and industry. Main application of genetics include: medical diagnostics; enhancement of agricultural, livestock, and poultry products; industrial microbiology and biotechnology. There are many fields in the industry requiring manpower highly skilled in genetics in general, genetic engineering and molecular biology in particular.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk