URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/healthphysical/index.php

Department of Health & Physical Education
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Health, Physical Education & Sports Sciences
Main page
Department of Health Physical Education &Sports Sciences
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Objectives
Facilities
Contact
Chairman: Prof. Dr. Basit Ansari
Physical Education is a way of education by means of physical movement. From Molecular Biology to Material Sciences nothing of value can be expected from a society if the teaching and research in Health and physical education is ignored or if it is relegate to a secondary status.  Being a natural phenomenon, movement is the essence of life and the entire mechanism of human body is geared to it. Experts believe that exercise is also as important as food. While food provides necessary energy for the body, exercise tones up the human organism so that it can utilize this energy in a better way. Since a healthy body is necessary for a healthy mind, physical education as a discipline is more intimately concerned with human development than educational disciplines.
Physical fitness is not only a concept but it reflects a practical approach to human betterment in terms of health. The survival of a nation is undoubtedly dependent on physical fitness which ensures general proficiency in all walks of life, and is inevitably linked with better economic growth. It is needless to emphasize the importance of physical education as a discipline as it already stands recognized at the university level. All the advanced countries, realizing its virtues and benefits, have included this subject as an essential part of curriculum at all levels of education.
The Department has been working strenuously towards a program of teaching and research to meet the needs of the country in Physical Education & Sports Sciences.
Teaching and Assessment
The teaching and assessment is done under the Semester System as per Karachi University rules.
Career Opportunities
The Graduate having a degree of Health and Physical education will be able to play a significant role and positive contribute to generate human resources and to serve various sector of society in general, related to such program in particular, render to educational institutions and sports organizations.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk