URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/mathematics/index.php

Department of Mathematical Sciences
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Mathematics
Main page
Department of Mathematics
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Courses
Syllabus
Aims and Objectives
Facilities
Activities
Research
Publication
Contact
Chairman: Prof. Dr. Najeeb Alam Khan.
The University of Karachi holds a unique position in the country's educational system. Its prestigious research and teaching institution meets the commitment to spreading knowledge through its programs. The research activities comprise original investigations, discussions, lectures, and teaching at various levels. We are deeply committed to supreme research in mathematics, and the scientific excellence of our faculty is well recognized.
Department of Mathematics was established in 1956, and Prof. Dr. Suleman Kerawala was the founder Chairman. It is one of the largest departments of the Faculty of Science, having a well-equipped auditorium, E-laboratory with free internet and E-Library.
We offer academic challenges and support to our students to help them succeed. We encourage them to develop problem-solving abilities to excel in mathematics. We collaborate with local community organizations, professional associations, other campus entities, and individuals. We promote the belief that mathematics holds an essential place in the history of humanity and it is valuable in the future of all disciplines.
We offer BS in pure, applied, financial, and computational mathematics. The Bachelor programs lead to the Master of Arts, Master of Science, Master and Doctor of Philosophy degrees with a major in Mathematics. In these programs, we cover a variety of subjects related to Mathematics, such as: Programming, business management, actuarial sciences, data sciences, accounting, and engineering etc.
The department is well-known for its long history, strength, and rigorous scholarships. Since its establishment, many outstanding mathematicians have served here. It has always had a leading status at home. It has been well-known abroad for its academic influences, especially in Non-Linear Mechanics, Dynamical Systems, Convex Analysis, Numerical Integration, Differential equations, Mathematical Inequalities, Mathematical and Statistical Modeling in Climate Dynamics, and Scientific and Engineering Computing.
Career Opportunities
The most common career paths of graduating students fall into some broad categories. The Department has designed the concentrations (and course requirements for each concentration) to help students prepare for a career (not limited to) in one of these main categories:
Teaching/Research related Fields at SUPARCO and Aviation.
Actuarial science.
Data science.
Business Analyst.
Information technology and computing.
Business, management, consulting.
Teaching / Research projects related to interdisciplinary fields such as: astronomy, climate related studies, robotics and other computing fields etc.
Departmental Web
https://domsku.org.pk
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk