URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/pharmaceuticalchemistry/index.php

Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Pharmaceutical Chemistry
Main page
Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Mission
Courses
Syllabus
Facilities
Events
Research Publications
Contact
Faculty of Pharmacy
Chairperson: Prof. Dr. Asia Naz
Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry is one of the most important academic units of the Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences. Department is dedicated to provide sound education in the field of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and deals with the physical and chemical aspects of Pharmaceuticals. Courses offer by the Department are based on organic chemistry, physical chemistry, analytical, instrumental and medicinal chemistry, with a focus on drug discovery and development. Currently, the department has four Professors, two Associate Professors, and four Assistant Professors. All are Ph.D. holders and actively engaged in teaching and research. The department aims to promote learning environment and training of students in the advanced specialized areas of the field.
Specific Research Areas br/>
The department has a rich history of excellence in research. Experienced and actively growing research groups are working in the disciplines of drug designing and development, product and process development of drug, analytical aspects of drug, nanotechnology, kinetic studies and drug stability. Researchers are working with different.
Career Opportunities
Graduate program of the department is dedicated to educate and train the students to produce active, skilled and responsible future pharmacist for academia, industry, hospitals and government setups. They can go in production, quality control, marketing and drugs regulatory department of different pharmaceutical industries. They can also work as part of a healthcare team comprising doctors, pharmacists and paramedical staff. They can play an effective role as drug experts, able to select best treatments for managing patient care. Apart from these, there is a number of opportunities available in administrative and general management sites in government health department. Pharmacists with M. Phil. and or Ph.D. degree can also join teaching and research organizations.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk