URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/pharmacy/index.php

Faculty of Pharmacy
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Pharmacy
Introduction
Faculty of Pharmacy
Introduction
Deans' Message
Introduction
Programs
Rules & Requirement
Departments
Facilities
Degrees awarded
Research
Publications
Contact
Dean: Prof. Dr. M. Harris Shoaib. (Profile)
The Faculty of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences at the University of Karachi owes its origin to the Department of Pharmacy, which was established in 1964. The Department of Pharmacy was founded in response to the need of better drug delivery system in hospitals and retail pharmacy, and also to cater the ever growing need of pharmaceutical industries because 90 percent of the drug based industry in Pakistan, both national and multi-national, is located at Karachi.
The Department of Pharmacy was raised as the first full-fledged Faculty of Pharmacy in the country. The faculty comprises five teaching and research departments viz. Pharmaceutics, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Pharmacognosy, Pharmacology and Pharmacy Practice. More than 2000 regular students are today pursuing their studies leading to the award of Pharm. D., M. Phil. and Ph.D degrees.
Apart from these departments the faculty also has a Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences in which research on different aspects of drugs is conducted.
Career Opportunities
Pharmacy as a distinct profession forms the edifice of the health care system on which lies success of well-being of the community. With the rise of population worldwide during the last few decades, it has been realized that the conventional traditional medical and healthcare services are unable to pay any significant role in the overall improvement of health status. This realization has driven all health professionals to the common goal of disease prevention and health promotion. In developed countries the clinical direction of Pharmacy has laid emphasis on the manipulative product-oriented and distributive skills and focuses more on the public health awareness. Today the Pharmacy profession has become highly patient-oriented which this has created much more opportunities for the pharmacists in hospital and community especially in the USA, Canada, Australia and the Middle East, while in Pakistan still 75% opportunities are in the industrial sector.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk