URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/pharmaceutics/index.php

Department of Pharmaceutics
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Pharmaceutics
Main page
Department of Pharmaceutics
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Courses
Objectives
Facilities
Publications
Contact
Faculty of Pharmacy
Chairman: Prof. Dr. S. M. Farid Hasan
In 1964 the department of pharmacy was part of faculty of sciences and then it has gained the status of faculty in 1973 after which the pharmacy started flourishing in its own. The faculty comprised on four major departments, of which pharmaceutics is one. Presently, more than 1800 regular students are today pursuing their studies leading to the award of Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm-D.), Master of Pharmacy (M.Pharm.), Master of Studies (M.S.), and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees.
Pharmaceutics is one of the major departments of Faculty of Pharmacy University of Karachi, holding about one third of the total pharmacy curricula, indicating the length of areas covered in the field of pharmaceutics that’s why in some countries pharmaceutics refers to as pharmacy itself.
The term pharmaceutics is about science that involves “converting a drug into a medicine”. It starts right after the drug discovery from the natural sources, passing through its physical and chemical characterization, manufacturing, quality control and analysis, its marketing aspects till its use by the patients. Today’s society’s needs has been shifted to a much more prognostic and sophisticated health care services, of it, pharmaceutical care has been of a prominent importance. As per a research, a significant increase in hospital admissions used to be due to the lacking in quality pharmaceutical care in health care institutes. The pharmacist being a drug expert and a very acceptable health care professional becomes an eminent individual to cater with the needs and demands of the modern age health care system.
Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Karachi presently, comprises of academic as well as non-academic staff. Most of the teaching staff has doctoral qualification and the rest are pursuing. The department covers 24 courses spread over five years of Pharm. D program in morning and evening shifts. The department is actively involved in pharmaceutical research that covers all aspects of pharmaceutical sciences offering M.Pharm. MS and PhD programs. The department has produced over 69 M. Phil and 11 PhD Scholars in different disciplines of pharmaceutics. The department is sufficiently equipped with all the needs and nodes that are of pivotal importance; here we have technology, pharmaceutical microbiology laboratories and computer laboratory to cope with the educational needs of the academia.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk