URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/psychology/index.php

Department of Psychology
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Psychology
Main page
Department of Psychology
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Facilities
Research
Call for Papers
Registration Form
Contact
Chairperson: Prof. Dr. Farah Iqbal
The department of Psychology came into existence in 1954 under the Chairmanship of Professor Dr. Qazi Aslam. It gradually attracted both students and teachers with the result that teaching and research psychologists like Dr. Haseen Uddin Zuberi, Dr. S. M. Hafeez Zaid, Dr. Farrukh Z. Ahmed, Dr. Afzal Imam and Dr. M.Wasim led the department to its present academic heights. It has now become one of the leading departments of the Faculty of Arts.
Since 1956, the teaching and practice of Clinical psychology has enjoyed popularity both amongst teachers and students of the department. Dr. Farrukh Z. Ahmad, the then chairperson, took active steps to establish a separate institute of clinical Psychology.
The department’s teachers are also members of the Sindh Psychological Association and the Pakistan Psychological Association. They further act as subject specialists in the Provincial and Federal Public service commission for the appointment of teachers in colleges. Seminars, lectures, mental health camps, picnics, students’ week, welcome and farewell parties etc. are arranged for the students so that they remain updated with current happenings and also get a chance to take a break from study schedules.
Teaching and Assessment
Teaching is based on interactive class participation: group discussions, class presentations by students, assignments, research work etc. to maintain interest and make learning more effective. The use of audio visual aids brings out the creativity of teachers and students, and helps in improving their presentation skills. Assessment is based on class performance of students, their punctuality, assignments and particularly the semester examination results.
Career opportunities
After doing Masters in Psychology (Clinical/Industrial/ Educational /Investigative Psychology), the students can pursue careers in any of the following fields: Organization, NGOs’ clinical setup, educational institutes, law enforcement agencies, the armed forces etc.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk