URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/specialeducation/index.php

Department of Special Education
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Special Education
Main page
Department of Special Education
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Objectives
Publications
Seminars
Contact
Chairperson: Dr. Humera Aziz (Assoc. Prof.)
The department of Special Education was established in the University of Karachi in 1988. The University of Karachi offers a regular program of studies in Special Education at the graduate as well as the post graduate level for students who intend to serve the Special need Community. During course of studies students are prepared to be Special Education and Rehabilitation experts.
The teaching faculty includes trained and experienced teachers with Ph.D. degrees in the discipline. The teaching in the Department is focused on developing independent and analytical thinking abilities in the student. The program is designed to provide students with opportunities to actually teach children with special needs during the course of studies, so that they can get practical experience along with their academic learning.
Teaching and Assessment
Lecture method with emphasis on classroom discussion and feedback including effective use of audio-visual aids, provision of expertise through resource persons and a regular program of extension lectures are part of formal teaching methodology. Field visits for on the spot observation of special children, particularly, in the classroom children are also arranged.
Career Opportunities
Students of the Department of Special Education continue to enter a variety of educational, vocational and rehabilitation fields.  Many are speech pathologists, audiologists, and teachers in different special education centers for mental retardation, physical handicap, hearing impairment, visual impairment, and learning disability. The graduates of the department get jobs in schools, hospitals, institutes, rehabilitation centers, directly or indirectly serving special need children.
Facilities
The Department has lecture and seminar rooms. Audio Visual Room, as well as a well stocked seminar library with most recent books. The department has equipment, which provides practical work facilities to students as well as provide exposure of practical teaching at Special Schools.
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk