URL: https://uok.edu.pk/faculties/visualstudies/index.php

Department of Visual Studies
Email
Facebook
MCN
Sitemap
Directory
Call: (9221) 9926 1300-7
Search
Home
About Us
Campus News
Policies HEC / Sindh HEC
Convocation
Downloads
Our history
KURECRUITS
Map of Pakistan
Admissions
Admissions Program 2026
M.Phil./Ph.D. & M.S./M.D.
Foreign Students' Policy
Faculties
Education
Engineering
Islamic Studies
Law
Management Sciences
Medicine
Pharmacy
Science
Arts & Social Sciences
Institutes / Centers
Library
Home
Digital Library
Ebrary
Administration
Vice Chancellor
Registrar
Syndicate Members
Former Vice Chancellors
Directorates & Offices
Examination
Annual System
Downloadable Forms
Common Questions
Overseas Examination
Semester System
Semester Rules Book
Semester Fee
Alumni
Journals
Home
Faculties
Visual Studies
Main page
Department of Visual Studies
Main page
Introduction
Faculty
Programs
Courses
Facilities
Contact
Chairman: Mr. Syed Shamoon Haider (In charge)
The Department of Visual Studies has completed its first decade, graduating innovative and award winning designers, architects and artists, who are making their mark in the professional world. The Department of Visual Studies sees itself as a bridge between tradition and innovation. Courses are interdisciplinary and contextualized. A strong theory component alongside practical and professional courses distinguishes the curricula of the Department. A dedicated faculty supported by visiting faculty from professional fields and the university’s own pool of excellent scholars, provides training that is current and professional. Students are encouraged to widen their experience and engage with the larger issues within which they will practice.
We live in a rapidly changing world that needs responsible solutions for its many unfolding challenges. With 70% of Pakistan’s population below the age of 25, the future lies in the hands of our youth. The graduates of the Department of Visual Studies have the opportunity to influence social perception, the built environment, and determine the cultural legacy of their times. History of ideas, sociology and researched dissertations are some of the ways in which students develop analytical skills, and measure their designs against their social, cultural, economic and environmental impact. Uniquely placed within Pakistan’s largest University, with 52 departments and 20 postgraduate institutes offering a wide range of studies in the sciences and humanities, the students of the Department of Visual Studies are exposed to students and faculty across all academic disciplines.
Future plans include postgraduate studies, an evening programme of short courses for professionals wishing to acquire further training.
Teaching and Assessment
Student assessment is based on practical assignments given throughout the term and examinations held at the end of each semester. Passing percentage is 50% in each course, and the result is is calculated on the basis of G.P.R. A student must have obtained a CGPR of 2.45 in order to be awarded a degree.
Career Opportunities
Architecture:   Architectural Design of buildings, Urban/Rural Planning, Architectural Research, Historical site management, Interior Design, Landscape architecture.
Design & Media Studies: Advertising design, Exhibition Design, Film & Television Production, Illustration, Animation, Photography, Editorial Design.
Textile Design: Print Design, Apparel Design and Textiles for Home Furnishing, Textile accessories, Weaving, Crafts, Set Design and costumes.
Industrial Design:  Product Design, Exhibition Design, Furniture Design, Interior Design, Set Design, Sign System Design, Transport Design.
Ceramics & Glass : Pottery, Glassware, Sculpture, Craft Management, Tile work, Interior Design products.
Fine Art : Artist, Arts Administration, Art Critic, Art Restoration, Animator, Art Gallery, Illustration, Set Design, Video.
Islamic Arts : Architectural Detailing, Arts of the Book, Calligraphy, Ceramics, Craft Management, Islamic Patterns, Miniature Painting, Museum Consultancy, Research, Restoration.
Art History: Art Critic, Art historian, Arts Administration, Teacher, Art Restoration, Art Gallery, Museum Consultancy
About Us
Downloads
MCN
News & Events
Pension Form
Semester Fee
Quick Links
Affiliation Committee
Postgraduate Students Portal Registration
Directorates & offices
Job Portal
Student Advisor Office
Physical Education
Tenders and Quotations
Syllabus Undergraduate Program
Placements and Internships
Karachi University Journal of Science
Protection Against Harassment
Web Links
Digital Library
Quality Enhancement Cell
Karachi University Press
NAEAC
Political Map of Pakistan
© 2026 University of Karachi
Credits
Contact us
Copyright
Disclaimer
Maps
Official Social Media Platforms, University of Karachi
Tweet
V.C. Office
Inquiry Direct: 99261300-07
Ext: 2219
Fax: 99261340, 99261330 (P.R.O.)
Email: vc@uok.edu.pk